you look at my screen right here and
what do you see i googled the term seo
it's a popular term gets over 110 000
searches in the united states per month
and it even has a
9.49 cost per click
and you see google ranking at the top in
moz and search engine land wikipedia of
course and wait what do you see here
neil patel
that's my own website
but you know what
popular keywords aren't the best
keywords
this keyword is almost useless for me
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down why popular
keywords aren't the best keywords
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
so you're probably wondering hey neil
what do you mean by popular keywords
aren't the best keywords seo great
keyword you get a lot of traffic for it
right
and i do but this article is on what is
seo
if you can also see here if i go to
you know the top of the article it's all
on beginner stuff beginner's guide to
seo seo 101 you know what is seo
literally it's a lot of beginner
stuff
and i myself make money by selling seo
services and marketing services in
general for my ad agency np digital
but as you can see here none of the
people who are ranking really cover
service related stuff more so they're
just here to tell you what seo is or the
definition
on the flip side you know i rank for a
term that gets a lot less traffic
seo company
and when i look at seo company
you're seeing other people rank there
and i'm not as high
uh just started this page a while ago
and this one's still on page one this
page right here
generates me roughly one new customer
every other month so that's roughly six
customers a year
this page
roughly one customer a year
so the one that doesn't rank as high is
generating me roughly one customer every
other month so six a year versus the one
that gets more traffic is only getting
me one a year but when you look at the
volume for this doesn't get a hundred
and ten thousand searches a month well
he gets eighteen thousand
the point i'm trying to make is
the most popular keywords typically
aren't the best keywords so how do you
find the right keywords well first off
they're not typically head terms like
one word like
insurance or seo
you know there's a lot of different
types of insurance if i was a
car company or a car insurance company i
wouldn't want to rank for insurance i
would want to rank for auto insurance or
even better auto insurance quotes
right it's very specific where someone
looking it up wants quotes and they're
interested in the service so i want you
to go to uberside neilpatel.com ubersets
or just go to uberstatus.com and type in
keywords related to your space so i'll
type in seo here and what you'll want to
do is scroll down and you can see a lot
of different ideas
you can click view all you can see
suggestions i like going into the
related keywords
um and the related keywords show you all
right what are all the keywords that are
very similar here's seo company that's
example of one if i go into suggestions
you know you can see quite a few as well
seo marketing seo with google
seo definition it just shows you longer
tail variations so just a general rule
of thumb when you're going through all
of this
number one you want to look for ideally
three word phrases the longer the phrase
probably the better
number two you wanna look for
keywords with high cpc high cpc like
this one seo website someone who's
googling it typically is looking due to
seo for a website or need helps with it
higher cpc means higher conversion seo
expert as you can see here
that's someone like hey i'm looking for
seo expert 31 cost per click
and you can do this for a lot of terms
like i'll google the term digital
marketing
or more so search on uber suggests and i
can see a lot of suggestions here
digital marketing agency it's not as
difficult to rank for compared to
digital marketing but yet the cost per
click is higher what does that mean it's
gonna drive you more revenue in most
cases so look for the longer tail terms
that have a high cpc
you know compared to the head terms and
have a seo difficulty score ideally a 50
or lower that means it's easier to rank
for and as you scroll down you'll find
them you know like digital marketing
consultant good cpc
uh
the search volume's not bad but the seo
difficulty is high and i can keep
scrolling and eventually as i scroll
more and more i'll find these keywords
so let's say go to the next page
you know actually you can click on
related that'll even give you more
suggestions
uh manager digital marketing so
someone's looking for a digital
marketing manager to hire you can have a
page that talks about how to hire one
and if they want they can just outsource
it to your company and save the hassle
has a decent cost per click has a good
volume and it's a 12 on a
scale from how hard is it to rank for
lower the number the better that's green
that's easy
so and i can keep scrolling and i can
find more uh terms like digital
marketing agencies near me
good cpc that means someone's looking
for an agency and you can have a page on
you know what agency based on cities
like los angeles new york london etc
and that gets good amount of searches
good cpc
easy difficulty when it comes to ranking
for
those are the type of terms that you
want to rank for and you want to create
content around that
that's how you do well that's how you
don't just get seo traffic but you get
seo traffic that generates revenue it
doesn't matter if you get 10 million
visitors or 1 million visitors a month
or even a thousand visitors a month the
question is is how much money you're
making for those visitors and the real
way to make the most is don't go after
popular terms like the term seo go after
terms that are more specific like i bet
you the term
digital marketing agencies near me would
drive me way more money in the long run
than just ranking on google for the term
seo because everyone who searches for
seo is more so looking around the basics
and the definition versus this term
digital marketing agencies near me
someone's looking to hire an agency
that's more likely to generate you more
income and there's just so many of these
terms out there you just got to keep
looking for them and i can keep going
here you know digital marketing agencies
in los angeles so i used to be based in
southern california not anymore i used
to live in los angeles but we have staff
in los angeles so that could be a very
relevant term for us good uh difficulty
49 under 50 as i mentioned decent cpc
which means it converts and decent
enough volume
so if you go with this strategy you can
do well in the long run if you have any
questions leave a comment below i'm here
to help you out if you just want my team
to do all of this for you check out my
ad agency np digital
and
if you like this video share it like it
tell the people about it thank you for
watching